---
layout: post
title: Allan Yu, interviewed on Sweat The Product
published_at: 2015-04-08T13:40:36.850Z
created: 2015-04-08T13:40:36.850Z
image: allan-yu.jpg
slug: allan-yu-interviewed-sweat-product
featured_image: https://wintermuteclub.s3.amazonaws.com/media/allan-yu.jpg
modified: 2015-06-08T12:52:15.227Z
---
> **Do you think that design has to look good to be good design?**
>
> No, I think design has to resonate with people to be good design. I think design has to resonate in whatever way it needs to, depending on whichever industry or path you're down. Like, if you're doing a product experience, it has to resonate a bit more than, say, if you're doing a poster where the form factor needs to resonate, the message needs to resonate. It's about, "What's the strongest point?" and working off the medium itself.

Fuck. Yes.

> **How would you describe your design aesthetic?**
>
> Bad, I don't have a design aesthetic. I honestly don't think I have a good one right now. I'm at a loss for an aesthetic. I can work within people's design paradigms, I can work within a company's design language, I can create a design language for other companies based on a brief, But personally, do I have one right now? No, I don't have one or I don't have a good one.

I think about this a lot. My title is designer, but I wouldn't know what to do, if I had to create a "design language" or drum up the graphic design for any kind of brand. I'd fiddle around and end up with some rookie work.

However, going through a lot of [Longform podcast episodes](http://longform.org/podcast) recently, and listening to writers talk about editors and vice versa, I've started thinking about if "editor" would be a better fitting title for what I do. An editor at a publication doesn't necessarily write stories themselves, but edit others' to make sure they fit the constraints of the publication, whether it's language, length or style. That's closer to what I do best, even if it doesn't fit perfectly; I outline something, we get it closer to reality (high-level mockups/PSD-comps, or preferably code), and then it can be edited until it fits the bigger picture as well as possible.

Anyway.
