---
layout: post
title: Richard Turley interviewed by It's Nice That
published_at: 2015-04-04T15:26:59.790Z
created: 2015-04-04T15:26:59.790Z
image: richard-turley-mtv.png
slug: richard-turley-interviewed-its-nice
featured_image: https://wintermuteclub.s3.amazonaws.com/media/richard-turley-mtv.png
modified: 2015-06-08T12:52:15.235Z
---
[The whole interview](http://www.itsnicethat.com/articles/richard-turley-mtv-interview-1) is so good, and it's pretty hard to single out any one bit, although this stood out:

> **You talk about "the chaotic visual language of our audience" what do you mean by this and how has it influenced the creative decisions you've made?**
> 
> I mean Tumblr, Instagram, Snapchat, Vine, Twitter. I mean YouTube clips, home edited video, social influencers, unboxing videos, Minecraft, Twitch, Taylor Swift cat videos, pop videos, lyric videos, web video, ISIS videos, Adam Curtis, Fox News, reality shows. I mean TV ads, billboard ads, banner ads, sponsored advertising, integrated marketing, spam, listicles, GIFs, net art, vaporwave, healthgoth, BessNYC, Richard Prince, Charlotte Free, Cassette Playa, Telfar, Cara Delevingne, Disney princesses, "real" princesses, the NSA, UGC, Jimmy Fallon, Kardashians, writing people's names on Coke cans. I mean Snapseed, To.Be.Cam, Gifboom, Split Lens, Glitché, Photobooth, Generateapp, Skype calls, Tindr, porn, news, information, corporations, commoditisation. Democratisation. Progress. Selfies.
> 
> The clusterfuck of visual content that we make and experience simultaneously on multiple screens, together, apart, sharing, liking, consuming. What we're interested in is making MTV the cypher, to take the same DNA as all of that content, and to experience it simultaneously, with the same visual incoherence.
> 
> Or something. I don't know. We just want to make fun stuff that feels authentic - it can't feel like some stupid agency bullshit branding play. We hired a handful of kids and we let them loose. There is no fixed creative, no brief beyond make stuff that makes the TV feel topical, current. It's another way of putting the audience on the TV, which MTV has always been good at.
>
> So the beauty of it is that this thinking is woven into the fabric of MTV - it's not a big jump. MTV is known for being chaotic. So for me, it becomes as much about connecting the dots between then and now.
