---
layout: post
title: Hamilton and the deliberate unknowing
published_at: 2016-11-07T12:19:48Z
created: 2016-11-07T12:21:36.076Z
slug: hamilton-and-deliberate-unknowing
modified: 2016-11-07T12:21:36.076Z
---
I play this stupid mind game with myself where I try to avoid looking up the exact meaning of something that's popular in my social circle for as long as I can. I do it to see if they at some point let outsiders in on whatever it is that's popular.

"Hamilton" is one such thing, which a bunch of people I follow Twitter, seem to find super interesting.

Over time, you begin to put things together, like "oh, there's some music and dance involved, so maybe it's a musical?" or "hmm, this 'Lin'-guy seems to be the one behind it, and damn, now he's meeting with Obama so it must be a big deal" etc.

Over time, you usually get a bigger picture, but until today, I was unsure what it _actually_ was.

Enter WikiPedia:

> Hamilton: An American Musical is a musical about the life of American Founding Father Alexander Hamilton, with music, lyrics, and book by Lin-Manuel Miranda. The show, inspired by the 2004 biography Alexander Hamilton by historian Ron Chernow, achieved both critical acclaim and box office success.

Now you, as I, know.

Related: What does "DOM" actually stand for? You'd be surprised how many articles and tutorials you can read on JavaScript without actually spelling out what it is. The same goes for "REST". I only looked those up a few weeks ago because it started bugging me a lot.
